# Lead-Scoring-Predictive-Model

In recent years, many companies and industries have embraced digital transformation to establish a strong online presence and reach global consumers through the Internet.  The widespread internet accessibility has resulted in a significant rise in online purchases due to over five billion internet users worldwide.  However, this has also led to fierce competition in the digital marketplace, making it crucial for companies to develop effective strategies to attract and engage potential customers, known as leads.  Identifying high-quality leads is essential, as low-quality leads often have low conversion rates, rendering marketing efforts and investments futile.  Traditionally, manual lead scoring processes were used, but they are inefficient in handling the massive daily data collection.  To address this, the paper aims to explore the potential of machine learning algorithms in building a predictive model to automatically identify leads with a higher likelihood of converting into paying customers.  This study utilised the Lead Scoring Dataset from Kaggle and examined four machine learning algorithms: Logistic Regression (LR), Random Forest (RF), Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost), and Multilevel Perceptron (MLP), to build a predictive model for lead scoring.  The result shows the XGBoost is the best machine learning algorithm as it has achieved the highest accuracy of 84.9% and only required less than 7 mins for model building, which outperformed the other models. 
